The Deployment models of the cloud. 
Private Cloud: 
Cloud services used by a single organization, not exposed to the public.
complete control
Security for sensitive applications
Meet specific business needs 
Public Cloud
Cloud resources are owned and operated by a third-party cloud service provider delivered over the internet.
Six advantages of cloud computing.
Hybrid Cloud
Keep some servers on-premises and extend some capabilities to the cloud. 
Control over sensitive assets in your private infrastructure
Flexibility and cost-effectiveness of the public cloud.

Types of Cloud computing.
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)
 • Provide building blocks for cloud IT • Provides networking, computers, data storage space • Highest level of flexibility • Easy parallel with traditional on-premises IT
 Platform as a Service (PaaS) 
• Removes the need for your organization to manage the underlying infrastructure • Focus on the deployment and management of your applications  
There are many platforms Elastic Beanstalk AWS 
Software as a Service (SaaS) 
• Completed product that is run and managed by the service provide
Many AWS services. 
Google APPS GMail etc 

Pricing of the Cloud
• AWS has 3 pricing fundamentals, following the pay-as-you-go pricing model • Compute: • Pay for compute time • Storage: • Pay for data stored in the Cloud • Data transfer OUT of the Cloud: • Data transfer IN is free • Solves the expensive issue of traditional IT 


AWS cloud Overview 
Regions - are all around the world, is a cluster of data centres. 
Most AWS services are region. Where should you do it. 
• Compliance with data governance and legal requirements: data never leaves a region without your explicit permission 
• Proximity to customers: reduced latency 
• Available services within a Region: new services and new features aren’t available in every Region 
• Pricing: pricing varies region to region and is transparent in the service pricing page.

AWS Availability Zones. 
• Each region has many availability zones (usually 3, min is 2, max is 6). Example: • ap-southeast-2a • ap-southeast-2b • ap-southeast-2c • Each availability zone (AZ) is one or more discrete data centers with redundant power, networking, and connectivity • They’re separate from each other, so that they’re isolated from disasters • They’re connected with high bandwidth, ultra-low latency networking.

Tour of the AWS Console 

AWS has Global Services: 
• Identity and Access Management (IAM) 
• Route 53 (DNS service)
 • CloudFront (Content Delivery Network) 
• WAF (Web Application Firewall) 
Most AWS services are Region-scoped: 
• Amazon EC2 (Infrastructure as a Service) • Elastic Beanstalk (Platform as a Service) • Lambda (Function as a Service) • Rekognition (Software as a Service)


Q: You ONLY want to manage Applications and Data. Which type of Cloud Computing model should you use? A:  Platform as a service

Q: Which Global Infrastructure identity is composed of one or more discrete data centers with redundant power, networking, and connectivity, and are used to deploy infrastructure? A : Avaiability Zones

Q: Which Global Infrastructure identity is composed of one or more discrete data centers with redundant power, networking, and connectivity, and are used to deploy infrastructure? A: Dedicated Support Agenct to help you deploy applications

Q: Which are the 3 pricing fundamentals of the AWS Cloud? Compute, Storage and data transfer out of the aws cloud

Q: AWS Regions are composed of? A: Two or more Availability Zones AWS Regions consist of multiple, isolated, and physically separate Availability Zones within a geographic area.

Q: Which of the following is the definition of Cloud Computing? A: On-demand availability of computer systems resources, especially data storage and computing power, without direct active management by the user. 

